You want to be soft, feminine, but you
don't want to be stepped on. You want to
have boundaries. You want to be
respected, but you don't want to be
rude. Since I'm talking a lot on my
social media accounts about femininity,
about feminine energy, about softness. I
of course also see other opinions, other
perspectives. And I feel like there is
such a big stigma out there that
feminine woman or feminine energy is not
to be respected and is something that
cannot be powerful, that cannot have
boundaries, that has to be like a
dormat. But let me tell you that's not
the case. You can have boundaries and
communicate in a soft way without being
rude, without getting stepped on. And
that's what this video is going to be
about. Hi guys, welcome back to my
channel. My name is Michaela and today
we're going to talk about how you can
set feminine boundaries and how you can
communicate in a feminine way. Let's get
into this. First of all, I want you to
know that boundaries are so important
and they are not a trait of a
narcissistic person. They are not
exclusive for men. They are not
exclusive for masculine energy.
Boundaries are very feminine. You have
to set your boundaries in order to
ensure that you are protected that you
can make sure that you are in a place
where your feminine energy is being
respected. Your boundaries are part of
your communication. And once you learn
to communicate your boundaries, you
communicate your feelings. You
communicate proper in a feminine way,
you will understand boundaries are like
invisible lines that protect you, your
time, your body, your emotions, your
softness, your feminine energy. And they
are limit you set to show others how
they have to treat you. There is no book
of standard boundaries everyone has to
have. They are very individual and you
have to go and ask yourself what
boundaries do you have? What lines are
for you creating safety in
relationships, in businesses, in
friendships and without those boundaries
people can and will take more of you
then you're able to give and you will
end up drained. They teach others how to
love you, how to respect you, how to
value you. And they create safety and
clarity in relationships because when
you don't have those boundaries, you
keep guessing. Is that okay? Is that not
okay? Should I accept behavior of
screaming or shouldn't I? Because my
friend, she's accepting it or my mom did
accept it from my dad. Ultimately, your
boundaries are also protecting your very
feminine energy because when you don't
have those boundaries, you keep
overgiving, overextending, overdoing,
maybe even allowing disrespect and that
makes you step out of your soft mode and
step in into your survival mode.
Boundaries are here to create that calm
and safe protective space for you. So
after this video, you will know how to
express your boundaries in a feminine
way, but also I want you to sit down and
think about what are your boundaries,
which behavior do you accept and which
you don't. And when you're not sure
about that, just think about what makes
you feel uneasy. If something makes you
feel uneasy, if something takes away
from your trust in another person, if
something takes away from your softness,
if something makes you step out of your
feminine energy, of your softness, then
this is a boundary that you have to set.
For example, if your bestie is always
giving you the feeling as she's in
competition with you and she needs to
prove that she's better or she's giving
you comments that don't make you feel
very good, you have to set a boundary
there. Just because you understand, hey,
this doesn't make me feel good, this
makes me feel uneasy, you have to set
the boundary. You have to make clear
that this is a line that you don't want
to be crossed. And you also have to know
that you have to express your boundaries
once and after that you have to take
action. Especially with men, men they do
not take words very seriously if there
is no action behind it. So if you say to
a man that you would like that he is
taking care of the rent that you don't
believe in 50/50 and he does not accept
or agree on that then you have to leave.
You have to take action to show him,
hey, this is my boundary and I tell you
once what I need. If you are not willing
to compromise on that, if you're not
willing to come towards me, then I not
because I want to hurt you. I need to
protect my boundary and say I need to
leave. I'm going to a place where my
boundaries are being respected. Now in
order to explain you how you can express
your boundaries, how you can communicate
in a feminine way, I want to give you
one example. You are with a man, you are
having a boyfriend and you cannot sleep
with him in a bed because he's snoring
or he's going to bed late. You want to
go to bed earlier, there is some
mismatch and you need your rest. You
could now a wake up and be super angry
and tell him because of you I didn't
sleep well because of you I did this and
that because of you my day is going to
be really bad or you speak from your
feelings. You wake up you say I'm not
feeling great today and you keep
mentioning throughout the day that you
feel really bad, you feel really tired.
You feel a certain type of way because
you didn't sleep well. And then at the
end of the day, you go to this man and
you express how you feel. I feel
overwhelmed. I feel tired. I feel sad. I
feel I cannot be my best self when I
cannot sleep well. And then when you
express how you feel, the other person
most probably will ask you why you feel
this way, why you didn't sleep well,
what can be done to make it different.
And in that case of sleeping, you can
say I was waking up a lot because I
heard you snoring. Or you can explain
that you need to sleep earlier to
function and to be soft and to be the
best version of yourself. that also
benefits in that version the men. For
example, your bestie keeps changing her
plans last minute every time. Instead of
accusing her of doing that, instead of
being angry, you say, "Hey, I feel
really disappointed. I feel really
uncomfortable with you changing plans
all the time." The thing is, when you're
coming from your heart, you're coming
from how you feel, you make the other
person not feel accused of something.
You give room for the other person to
understand that you feel a certain type
of way that you are affected by their
behavior and also that you're taking
ownership of your feeling. When you're
accusing directly someone of your
feelings of something that someone else
has done, you are down the line also
saying you are responsible for how I
feel.
And that's a difficult place to be in.
When someone does something, they might
not do that out of bad intentions. They
might have bad routines, bad rituals.
They are going through something
themselves. You'd never know where the
other person stands. So you coming from
how you feel instead of accusing the
other person makes you confront that in
a very feminine way and also as I said
gives more room for solution. The second
very important point is to set limits
without overexplaining. In the previous
example, in case of the boyfriend and
the sleeping, I think that was already
the maximum reached of what you should
explain. You should never overexlain how
you feel, why you feel that way, unless
the other person is asking you. And of
course, it depends on the situation. It
always depends who you're dealing with
and if you already have talked about
that and what the situation is about,
but best possible is to set a boundary
without even giving any explanation. I
am unavailable till 9:00 p.m. Finish.
Done. There is nothing to be added. I am
not respecting to be yelled at. Done.
You stated your boundary and you stopped
talking. You leave the scenery. maybe
and you can say that in a very calm way.
You don't need to raise your voice for
that. You don't need to use any rude
words because you simply say I don't
respect that. I don't agree with that. I
don't allow that. I am not willing to do
that. I am not coming today. That's it.
That's a boundary set. I'm giving you
more examples. Your bestie wants to
borrow stuff from you, but you feel
uncomfortable with that. You say, "I
don't lend out things." Or someone asks
information that you simply don't want
to give. You say, "I'm not comfortable
talking about that. I don't want to give
that information." That's it. You don't
need to explain why. You are not owing
anyone an explanation why. For example,
you don't want to share which perfume
you're using. Why you don't want to
share your family situation. Why you
don't want to speak about your
relationships? Why you don't want to
speak about your drama? How often have I
been in situations where I overshared my
life? And even though I wasn't
comfortable with that, I kept doing that
because I thought, "Oh, that person
asked me. I need to answer. I don't want
to disappoint that person. I don't want
to lose that person. I don't want to
create an awkward situation. But believe
me, it's only awkward if you say, speak
out things that you don't want to. On an
energetic level, you are changing. Your
energy level changes after you are
crossing your own boundary. Your
boundary is I don't want to say that,
but you say it. And then what the other
person is receiving is that you do not
respect yourself. And even though you
might think people don't recognize,
people don't know and it's awkward when
I'm not talking, when I'm not explaining
what they want to know, when I'm not
giving them the information. It's
actually the exact opposite way. people
first of all they feel everything even
though they might not know what they
feel but they feel and unconsciously
their nervous system is changing towards
you. And the second thing is that once
you learn to set your boundaries in a
simple nonoverexlaining way, people
start to respect you more because they
see, wow, she just says one sentence and
she's not angry, she's not offended,
she's not rude. She is keeping herself
just saying,
"I don't want to share that." And let
the silence speak. The other person will
find another topic to talk about. And if
that other person is then saying, "Oh,
you're weird." Or, "That's
disrespectful,"
then you know what person that is. It's
only disrespectful to not respect your
boundary. It's only disrespectful to
force you to say something you don't
want to say. And another thing, when
you're overexplaining your boundaries,
you're giving the other person the
impression that you're not sure with
yourself or with your boundaries that
you need to convince yourself. You need
to convince others to respect your
boundaries. It all has to do with you
actually. And when you respect yourself
and your boundaries, of course, you
would just say, "I don't want to share
that. I don't want to do that. I don't
want to join that group chat. I'm not
doing that. I'm not involved in that.
I'm not coming to the birthday party. I
am not joining you this weekend. I am
not replying to messages in lunchtime
and so on. When you don't give
explanations for that, people know, hey,
she's serious. Like that's her boundary.
there's no little loophole where they
might could find their way to get what
they want. And sometimes people also
think that you might want them to push
you to answer. But they only get that
feeling when you're overexlaining, when
you are giving doubts, when you are
doubting yourself. Number three, replace
harsh words with soft but firm language.
What do I mean by that? You can either
say, "Stop bothering me." Or you can
say, "I need some space right now." You
can also say it in a firmer way if you
need to. Again, it always depends on the
situation and the person you're talking
to. But you don't need to choose harsh
or rude words. Set a firm boundary by
saying, "I need space right now." That's
it. You go take your space. You need to
understand raising your voice and
setting the tone are two very different
things. You can set your tone and say
things in a very different way, giving a
very different message without raising
your voice. You don't need to yell. You
don't need to shout. You can say, "I
need some space right now." Or you say,
"I need some space right now." See the
difference? You can play around with
toning your message. Tone your message
without getting louder. The louder you
get, the less powerful the message is.
People who yell, who are shouting, their
message has no body. So they need to
overpower it with yelling. They think
when they are yelling, then the message
comes across. Then the other person will
listen. But that's not the case. The
quieter you can set firmly your
boundaries, the more powerful they are,
the more respected they are going to be.
I want you to think about a situation
when someone yelled at you. How did you
feel? What was the message you heard
while the person was yelling? probably
nothing but fear, feeling intimidated,
maybe even anger, maybe aggression, but
you definitely most probably did not
hear what's the context of that message
was. Now, number four, hold eye contact
and keep your posture, your body
relaxed. When you hold eye contact and
you say, "I do not accept that. I do not
agree with that. I do not want to
continue here." You don't even need to
raise your voice because your eyes, your
eye contact is clear. It doesn't leave
any room to negotiation. It sets the
tone and it says to the other person, I
know what I want. I am relaxed. You can
choose now. I give the ball to you. I
say what I need or what I don't respect,
what I'm not accepting, allowing, what
my boundary is. And your body
communicates that safety and that
certainty that you know this is your
boundary. You know that nobody steps
over your boundary. That's it. Always
keep in mind that feminine boundaries
they never feel aggressive. Some people
they think they need to gasulate or
tense up and say no I don't want this.
But this is not a very feminine approach
to boundaries to communication. Number
five. How to say no? I learned that I'm
always saying no with gratitude instead
of saying no with guilt. And the
difference is, for example, I can say,
"I'm so sorry I won't be able to join."
Or I say, "I'm so grateful for the
invitation, but I won't be able to
join." When you're apologizing for your
boundary, for your decision, then you're
already putting yourself lower. You are
also giving again room to negotiation,
room to pushing. When for example, you
say, "I'm so sorry. I wish I could make
it, but I can't." "I'm so sorry. I wish
I could do that for you, but I can't."
You're also sending out a message from
guilt instead of from gratitude. So,
next time when you're being late to an
appointment, don't say, "I'm so sorry
I'm late." Say, "Thanks for waiting. I
appreciate your patience. When you
connect it with gratitude, the other
person first feels appreciated and
second doesn't feel the need to argue on
that doesn't feel the need to push you
to do something you already said you are
grateful but you won't be able to make
it. It's very clear and very firm but
still very friendly and very soft.
Number six, don't rush. I mentioned that
throughout the past few examples. Once
you set the boundary, say, "I don't
accept it." Done. Leave the space. Stop
talking. Give the ball to the other
person. You want to have a boundary
where the person knows nothing to add.
When you're agreeing on an apartment, a
rental price, you're saying as the
owner, I want 130K a year, one check,
nothing else. You give the ball to the
tenant. Does the tenant agree or he
doesn't? When he doesn't, another tenant
will come. The owner has to wait and you
are the owner of your boundaries. You
have to wait. Just wait and see who is
accepting your offer, who is accepting
your boundaries, who is accepting your
standards. Another very very important
point I want to mention is that you can
never force other people to respect your
boundaries. I think that's something
pretty much only women do. We are trying
to force people to accept and respect
our boundaries and that's a very big
mistake. We cannot force anyone to do
anything. And also once we are trying to
convince the other person of our
boundary, the boundary is in vain.
Imagine as the owner from an apartment,
you're trying to convince the tenant to
pay 130,000 for one year. as the tenant,
you will think, "Oh, she's not sure
about this price. I'm sure I can
negotiate. I'm sure I can push." And
that's the same with your boundaries.
When you keep trying to convince other
people about your boundaries, about
respecting your boundaries, you're
losing out. They won't because they know
you're not taking it so serious. They
know you're not sure about your own
boundaries yourself. You're trying to
have this boundary. But for you, it's
more important to keep this person in
your life and this should never ever be
the case. Your boundaries are here.
Whatever is happening is below. You have
to have clear in mind that your
boundaries are the most important thing.
And whoever doesn't respect that
boundary, you're not afraid to leave
people behind. You're not afraid to say
goodbye to someone who won't agree to
your boundaries because your boundaries
are that only container that you create
for yourself for you to feel safe. It's
your responsibility to enforce those
boundaries. It's not the other person's
responsibility to enforce those
boundaries. Yes, you can tell the other
person this is my boundary but the other
person can decide do I want to respect
those boundaries or I don't. And if they
don't, they have to be sure that you're
willing to walk away if your boundaries
are not being respected. You are not a
speaking tree. You can walk away from
anyone and everyone and everything,
every situation that does not comply
with your rules and standards. This
probably is something new for you. This
is probably something you're learning to
enforce. You're learning to embrace.
You're learning to understand yourself.
Now, I want you to learn that with small
tasks. For example, you're going on a
date with a man. He chose a restaurant
and it turned out that in this
restaurant they are smoking inside and
you could either think okay I'm not
smoking but for one two hours I can sit
there or you start to learn to set
boundaries and you say I appreciate the
invitation but I won't feel comfortable
sitting in a smoker's area. The man can
then choose to either say
then go or he steps up in his
masculinity and he says oh really no
problem let's go somewhere else I have
another option. Another example you go
to the salon you do your nails and it
turned out that one or two of them are
not the way they should be. Maybe the
the shape is different. Instead of
saying doesn't matter it's just one or
two nails I'm going there in one month.
You say, "Excuse me, I noticed there are
some irregularities. Could you fix
this?" If you're going to the salon and
you are doing your hair and you don't
like the outcome, you can simply say, "I
don't like it. It's not what I
expected." Instead of saying, "Yeah, I
love it." I do recommend that you are
training your brain, training yourself
to set soft boundaries, especially with
people who are new to you or people you
don't know, random people in a shop,
cafe, in a restaurant. Whenever you feel
there is the opportunity to say no, to
express what you would like, you can
learn to do that without feeling scared
of the impact because you don't know the
person that well, right? And when you
experience how people react to your no,
especially foreign people, people you
don't know, you will feel more confident
to do that as well with your friends,
your family, your boyfriend, your
husband. And also, I want you to know
that just because you have not set those
boundaries in a soft way or not set
those boundaries at all doesn't mean
that you cannot start now to set those
boundaries with the same people. I
always say you can change every day.
You're not the same person as you were
yesterday or last month or last year.
And with changing you're also changing
your boundaries. The same boundaries you
have today might not be the same
boundaries you have in one year. And the
main and very important point is to know
your boundaries in the first place. Keep
checking in with yourself if you are
still comfortable with specific things
or you're simply not. I might have
accepted behaviors from my friends where
they were dismissing me. Now I won't do
that anymore. Now I am willing to walk
away from those friends when they are
not complying with my boundaries and
rules. Now of course boundaries are just
a part of communication. Communication
is so much bigger than just boundaries.
And another very very important point in
feminine communication, especially in
relationships between men and women, in
romantic relationships, never say you
have to help me, you have to do this,
you have to fix this, you have to do. Do
not demand anything from a man. Invite
him to do it instead. Say things like,
"I would feel so supported if you could
help me out with this." "I would feel so
appreciated and loved if I would receive
flowers every week. I would feel so
cherished and happy and beautiful if you
would get me this bag." Always talk from
your feelings and invite instead of
demand. Another important point about
feminine communication is that you're
always acknowledging the other person.
Instead of just brushing things off and
saying, "I'm busy," say things like, "I
appreciate you asking, but I'm not
available right now." Always keep
acknowledging the other person's
feelings, the other person's effort, the
other person's presence, and then say
whatever you want to say. Especially
when you're talking to men. Men do feel
appreciated when you acknowledge them
and their feelings even in arguments
even or especially when they feel down.
They want to be acknowledged. They want
to feel seen and heard and understood by
whatever they are going through. And you
can do that so easily by just
acknowledging it. By just saying, "Wow,
I see your effort. Wow, it must have
been so hard for you." And even in
arguments, say things like, "I see where
you're coming from. I acknowledge your
feelings, too. I respect your point of
view. I appreciate that you're being so
direct with me." Even when someone is
rude to you, that's the way how you can
feminine counterattack because you're
not attacking. You're only acknowledging
the other person. You remain calm, firm,
and clear with your boundaries. And
that's it for today. Thank you so so
much for watching. I love you so much,
and I see you in my next video. Bye-bye.